Trump denies echoing Hitler on immigration. But it's a pattern. | AP News

NEW YORK (AP) — Donald Trump has centered his unlikely rise from reality television star to onetime — and potentially future — president on the idea that he’s wiser than Washington’s bumbling political class, once going so far as to label himself a “very stable genius.”
But when it comes to one of history’s darkest moments, Trump is professing ignorance.
Facing criticism for repeatedly harnessing rhetoric once used by Adolf Hitler to argue that immigrants entering the U.S. illegally are “poisoning the blood of our country,” Trump insisted he had no idea that one of the world’s most reviled and infamous figures once used similar words. The Nazi dictator spoke of impure Jewish blood “poisoning” Aryan German blood to dehumanize Jews and justify the systemic murder of millions during the Holocaust.
“I never knew that Hitler said it,” Trump told conservative radio host Hugh Hewitt on Friday, volunteering once again that he never read Hitler’s biographical manifesto, “Mein Kampf.”
READ MORE
Nikki Haley has called out prejudice but rejected talk of systemic racism throughout her career
Probe finds problems with Connecticut racial profiling data were largely mistakes, not intentional
Judge dismisses discrimination and negligence lawsuit against Mississippi coach Lane Kiffin
“I know nothing about Hitler,” he insisted. “I have no idea what Hitler said other than (what) I’ve seen on the news. And that’s a very, entirely different thing than what I’m saying.”
Trump’s assertion that he knows so little about one of the 20th century’s most documented figures is notable for someone seeking the presidency, a role steeped in and shaped by history. But claiming ignorance, particularly when it comes to people who espouse racist or antisemitic rhetoric, is a tactic Trump has repeatedly deployed when aiming to distance himself from uncomfortable storylines.
After he was endorsed by former Ku Klux Klan grand wizard David Duke during his winning 2016 campaign, Trump insisted he had no knowledge of the white supremacist who had run for office numerous times and is described by the Anti-Defamation League as “perhaps America’s most well-known racist and anti-Semite.”
“Just so you understand, I don’t know anything about David Duke, OK?” he told CNN’s Jake Tapper in February 2016. “I don’t know anything about what you’re even talking about with white supremacy or white supremacists.”
Asked if he would condemn the white supremacists supporting him, Trump said he would “have to look at the group. I mean, I don’t know what group you’re talking about.” He continued to repeat that assertion even after Tapper said he was referring to the KKK.
OTHER CASES
Trump has also pleaded ignorance in other cases. As he ran for reelection in 2020, Trump said he didn’t know much about QAnon, the convoluted conspiracy that alleges Democrats are involved in a satanic pedophilia ring and casts Trump as the nation’s savior — even as he retweeted accounts promoting the conspiracy.
“I know nothing about it,” he said during an NBC town hall. Nonetheless, he refused to rule it out as false. “I don’t know that and neither do you,” he said.
It was the same when Trump was asked to condemn the Proud Boys militia group, which was key in organizing the assault on the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021. Enrique Tarrio and other members of the far-right extremist group have been found guilty of seditious conspiracy and other crimes for their part in the attack, which was part of a desperate bid to keep Trump in power after he lost the 2020 election to Joe Biden.
“I don’t know who the Proud Boys are,” Trump told reporters after instructing the group, during a presidential debate, to “Stand back and stand by.”
“I mean, you’ll have to give me a definition ‘cause I don’t really know who they are,” Trump said of the group, which was drawing headlines at the time.
Trump has also suggested he was unaware of some of the most consequential periods of American history. At a recent rally in Reno, Nevada, Trump said he had to ask Texas Gov. Greg Abbott to define the post-Civil War era known as Reconstruction as he boasted about his growing popularity with Hispanic voters and Republican wins along the border.
“They say the first time since Reconstruction. You know what Reconstruction means? That means the Civil War,” Trump told the audience. “I said, ‘Give me a definition, governor, of Reconstruction. You said I’m the first one to win all of these towns since Reconstruction.’ He said, ‘Well, Reconstruction: since the Civil War.’ That’s a long time ago. That’s pretty good.”
Trump campaign spokesman Steven Cheung said Trump “has been very clear that he’s talking about criminals and terrorists who have crossed the border under Joe Biden’s watch. When he’s back in the White House, the United States will return to a secure border and a system that places the safety and security of Americans first.”
‘THE MOST SAVAGE CRIME’
The former president’s claims about Hitler are particularly notable given his upbringing in New York, home to one of the nation’s largest Jewish populations.
Trump has also participated in Holocaust memorial events. He spoke at a ceremony at the U.S. Capitol hosted by the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum in 2017, where he denounced Holocaust deniers as accomplices to “horrible evil.” And he paid a brief visit to Yad Vashem, Israel’s national Holocaust memorial, where he called the Nazi extermination of 6 million Jews “the most savage crime against God and his children.”
Trump’s insistence that he has not read “Mein Kampf” — an assertion he also made at an Iowa rally last week — evoked a different Hitler book he once allegedly had in his possession.
Journalist Marie Brenner reported in Vanity Fair magazine in 1990 that Trump’s ex-wife, Ivana Trump, told her lawyer that, “from time to time her husband reads a book of Hitler’s collected speeches, ‘My New Order,’ which he keeps in a cabinet by his bed.”
Trump told Brenner that, “it was my friend Marty Davis from Paramount who gave me a copy of ‘Mein Kampf,’ and he’s a Jew.” Davis confirmed to Brenner that he had indeed given Trump ”a book about Hitler,” but it was “My New Order, “ a collection of Hitler’s speeches. “I thought he would find it interesting,” Davis said, adding, “I am his friend, but I’m not Jewish.”
“Later, Trump returned to this subject.,” Brenner wrote. “‘If I had these speeches, and I am not saying that I do, I would never read them,’” Brenner wrote.
HISTORY
Knowing basic American history is important for a president, said Princeton University professor Julian Zelizer, who studies political history.
“We don’t need a historian as president, but certainly you want a president with a feel for some of the basic parts of American history, of world history,” he said, noting, for instance, that Reconstruction was a “a formative moment for civil rights and race relations.”
In “Mein Kampf,” Hitler wrote that, “All great cultures of the past perished only because the originally creative race died out from blood poisoning.”
Trump told Hewitt his message was “very different” and he had “zero” racist intent.
“I’m not a student of Hitler. I never read his works,” he said. “They say that he said something about blood. He didn’t say it the way I said it, either, by the way. It’s a very different kind of a statement. What I’m saying when I talk about people coming into our country is they are destroying our country.”
Still, he repeated “poisoning” references eight times.
Among those references: “They are poisoning our country. They are poisoning the blood of our country. They’re coming from all over the world. They’re coming from prisons. They’re coming from mental institutions and insane asylums. They’re terrorists. Absolutely that’s poisoning our country. That’s poisoning the blood of our country. And that’s what’s happening.”

Vice President Harris says she's 'scared as heck' that Donald Trump could win | AP News

WASHINGTON (AP) — Vice President Kamala Harris said she’s “scared as heck” that Donald Trump could win another term as president as she pledged an aggressive campaign to make sure that doesn’t happen.
She made the comments Wednesday on ABC’s “The View” in response to a question from Joy Behar, one of the show’s hosts. Behar cited reports that other top Democrats — including former President Barack Obama and Rep. James Clyburn of South Carolina — are concerned about President Joe Biden’s reelection campaign.
Asked if she was scared about the potential of another Trump presidency, Harris said: “I am scared as heck! Which is why I’m traveling our country. You know, there’s an old saying that there’s only two ways to run for office — either without an opponent or scared. So on all of those points, yes, we should all be scared.”
Harris said the fear should serve as motivation for the campaign ahead.
READ MORE
Vice President Harris targets Trump as she rallies for abortion rights in Wisconsin
Emhoff will discuss antisemitism and gender equity at World Economic Forum
Air Force Two carrying VP Harris diverted to DC-area airport after encountering ‘wind shear’
“When we are scared for the future of our children, do we then stay in bed with the covers over?” she said. “No, we can’t.”
Harris added, “We’ve got to earn reelection. There is no question. We’ve got to be on the road.”
The vice president is scheduled to begin a series of events focused on abortion in Wisconsin, a key battleground state. Events will begin Monday, the 51st anniversary of Roe v. Wade, the Supreme Court decision that protected the right to an abortion.
The court’s conservative majority overturned the nationwide right to abortion in 2022, a significant defeat for Democrats but one that has also motivated the party’s voters.
“In this year of our Lord 2024, the government should not be telling women what to do with their bodies, and so it’s that basic,” Harris said.
Alyssa Griffin, a former Trump communications aide who has become a critic of the former president, pressed Harris on why Biden has fallen short of his predecessor in some polls.
“What does it say that the party is struggling to compete with an unfit man who is very likely going to jail?” asked Griffin, who is another host of “The View.”
Harris suggested that voters haven’t been paying attention to politics and are now “beginning to narrow in on what this election will mean.”
She described a choice between “competence versus chaos,” as well as a battle for the future of American democracy.
“This is going to be the split screen,” Harris said. “And I do believe that the American people are going to vote in favor of what is in the best interest of the future of our country and in particular our children.”

Trump praises Texas governor as state clashes with Biden administration over immigration | AP News

LAS VEGAS (AP) — Former President Donald Trump lavished praise Saturday on Texas Gov. Greg Abbott for not allowing the Biden administration entry to remove razor wire in a popular corridor for migrants illegally entering the U.S. in an escalating feud over immigration.
In a speech focused overwhelmingly on border security, Trump said Texas should be given full support in its measures to deter migrants along the U.S.-Mexico border. The state is restricting the U.S. Border Patrol after the Supreme Court cleared the way for these federal agents to cut or remove the sharp metal barrier.
“When I’m president, instead of trying to send Texas a restraining order, I will send them reinforcements,” Trump told a crowd of supporters in Las Vegas, where he rallied on an indoor soccer field in a largely Latino neighborhood. “Instead of fighting border states, I will use every resource tool and authority of the U.S. president to defend the United States of America from this horrible invasion that is taking place right now.”
Trump largely avoided talking about a verdict delivered by a jury in a defamation case Friday, ordering him to pay an additional $83.3 million to columnist E. Jean Carroll, who he called a liar for accusing him of sexual assault.
RELATED COVERAGE
Biden offers fresh assurances he would shut down border ‘right now’ if Congress sends him a deal
With beds scarce and winter bearing down, a tent camp grows outside NYC’s largest migrant shelter
Biden urges Congress to embrace border bill. But House speaker suggests it may be ‘dead on arrival’
The former president, who is getting closer to securing the Republican presidential nomination, said he was the victim of the Biden administration weaponizing law enforcement against him as he faces 91 criminal charges in four indictments accusing him of trying to overturn the 2020 presidential election, mishandling classified documents and arranging payoffs to a porn star.
Republican presidential candidate former President Donald Trump speaks at a campaign event Saturday, Jan. 27, 2024, in Las Vegas. (AP Photo/John Locher)
“What they’re doing with elections and election interference as an example of what they do with me,” he said. “Look at yesterday, look at all this crap that’s going on, but we keep marching forward, we just keep going and somehow it all works out.”
Annabelle Weislocher, 51, a nurse who retired from the Navy and the Air Force Reserve, said she felt the cases against Trump are attempts to weaken him and drain him from his resources.
“They know he’s leading. They know he’s strong. And they’re doing everything just to lower him,” she said. “That’s what they’re trying to do, take his money thinking he won’t have enough funds to campaign. That’s the goal.”
Trump’s support among Hispanics has grown since he first ran in 2016. And on Saturday, he drove that point, drawing loud cheers when he claimed he was doing very well in that voter demographic.
FILE - A woman cheers as Republican presidential candidate former President Donald Trump speaks at a campaign event Jan. 27, 2024, in Las Vegas. (AP Photo/John Locher, File)
The Republican candidate said Hispanic and Black families hurt the most from the arrival of migrants into the country and said President Joe Biden should not have ended restrictions implemented during the Trump administration to deter migration.
“I’ll get it solved and I’ll get it solved and start the process on day one — on day one, we will start that process,” he said. “That’s why we’re going to win the record share of Latino votes.”
The historic number of migrants arriving at the U.S. border with Mexico during Biden’s term is one of the main challenges of his reelection campaign.
Immigration was a top issue during Iowa’s Republican caucuses earlier this month, when Trump won. An AP VoteCast survey found about 9 in 10 caucusgoers backed building a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border, with about 7 in 10 expressing strong support for the idea.
Rob Williams, a 25-year-old voter who attended the Las Vegas rally, said he was glad Texas was defying the Biden administration over immigration.
“The good Texan people are stepping up to the plate, other states as well,” he said. “They’re going to show the fight over there in Texas.”
Trump is running without any major opposition in Nevada after the state GOP decided to award delegates in a party-run caucus on Dec. 8 instead of a state-run primary a day earlier.
The decision, which was pressed by Trump’s allies in the party to help him amass as many delegates as possible, has caused confusion for some voters, who are receiving mail ballots without Trump’s name on them.
Trump repeatedly pressed voters to caucus for him and ignore the primary.
“Your primary vote doesn’t mean anything,” he said. “Don’t worry about the primary, just do the caucus”
Trump’s only remaining major GOP rival, former U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley, is competing in the primary but not the caucus, which makes her ineligible for delegates who will formally select a nominee at the Republican National Convention. ___
Gomez Licon reported from Miami.

Vivek Ramaswamy suspends his 2024 Republican presidential bid and endorses rival Donald Trump | AP News

Biotech entrepreneur Vivek Ramaswamy suspended his bid for the 2024 Republican presidential nomination on Monday and endorsed former President Donald Trump after finishing a distant fourth in Iowa’s leadoff caucuses.
Ramaswamy said he made the decision after determining there was no path forward for him in the race, “absent things that we don’t want to see happen in this country.”
The 38-year-old political novice, who sought to replicate Trump’s rise as a bombastic, wealthy outsider, said he called the former president earlier Monday evening to congratulate him on his victory in Iowa. Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis came in second, with former U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley just behind in third.
Ramaswamy told supporters gathered at a Des Moines hotel that Trump “will have my full endorsement for the presidency.”
OTHER NEWS
Nikki Haley’s dilemma in South Carolina: winning over voters who like her, but love Trump
Georgia House votes to revive prosecutor oversight panel as Democrats warn of targeting Fani Willis
President Biden has said he’d shut the US-Mexico border if given the ability. What does that mean?
He added: “And I think we’re going to do the right thing for this country. And so I’m going to ask you to follow me in taking our America First movement to the next level.”
Trump, in his victory speech a few minutes earlier, said Ramaswamy “did a helluva job” in the campaign. Ramaswamy said he would likely appear with Trump in New Hampshire Tuesday night and suggested DeSantis and Haley should “follow suit” in withdrawing from the race.
During the campaign, Ramaswamy needled most of his opponents but praised Trump as “the best president of the 21st century.” He argued, though, that Republicans should opt for “fresh legs” while still supporting the America First agenda.
The approach, including his call for “revolution,” vaulted Ramaswamy into the mix of candidates vying to overtake Trump — or at least become a viable alternative. His decision to drop out, though, becomes the latest confirmation that the former president, even at 77 years old and under multiple criminal indictments, still dominates Republican politics and remains the overwhelming favorite to win the GOP nomination for the third consecutive time.
Ramaswamy’s failure also affirms how difficult it is for any Republican other than Trump to push the bounds of party orthodoxy, as the first-time candidate found little political reward for positions such as his opposition to aid for Israel and Ukraine.
Ramaswamy said he would be open to vice presidential consideration.
“I’m not somebody who’s going to be able to speak anyone’s convictions but my own,” he said. “So if that’s a role that I can perform from the vice presidency or any other one, I’m going to evaluate whatever is best for the future of this country. But my No. 1 commitment is to truth.”
The son of Indian immigrants, Ramaswamy entered politics at the highest level after making hundreds of millions of dollars at the intersection of hedge funds and pharmaceutical research, a career he charted and built while graduating from Harvard University and then Yale Law School. He brought to his campaign the same brash approach he used to coax money from investors even when the drugs he touted never made it to the market.
“Do you want somebody who grew up in this system who’s going to deliver incremental reform? Or do you want somebody coming in from the outside?” he said earlier in the campaign, framing his business success as a harbinger of what he could do in the Oval Office.
In a rapid-fire presentation on a range of issues, Ramaswamy wowed many GOP audiences by seamlessly mixing his biography and detailed policy positions with conservative talking points.
He advocated deporting the American-born children of immigrants who reside illegally in the country. He questioned the government’s account of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks and called for firing 75% of the federal workforce. He also called for raising the U.S. voting age. He hammered corporate America for its emphasis on diversity, equity and inclusion. Ramaswamy called hawkish GOP rivals “Dick Cheney in 3-inch heels” and laughed when one of them called him “scum.” But he always navigated Trump carefully, promising to pardon the former president for any federal crimes, including those related to the insurrection at the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021.
Yet alongside the bravado, Ramaswamy often ignored contradictory details, and his confidence sometimes brought him trouble.
He did not tell voters that he once described Trump’s denial of his 2020 defeat as “abhorrent” or that he saw Jan. 6 as a “dark day for democracy.” He didn’t say he invested in companies whose diversity, equity, and inclusion programs he calls “woke.” His isolationist views and his assertions that U.S. politicians back Israel because of their personal financial interests drew the ire of influential conservative commentators, including Sean Hannity of Fox News.
Ramaswamy insisted he had a nobler purpose: “I’ll keep us out of World War III and then revive national pride in this country.”

Inside Donald Trump's curious relationship with Fox News | AP News

NEW YORK (AP) — At this moment in the 2024 election cycle, complaining about Fox News — even if for different reasons — may be what unites Donald Trump, Nikki Haley and Ron DeSantis the most.
At conservative America’s favorite news source, the Republican nomination process is essentially over and has been for awhile, leaving DeSantis and Haley annoyed at perceived favoritism to Trump. Hardly grateful, the former president regularly tears into Fox for what he sees as disloyalty, even ripping his former White House press secretary, Kayleigh McEnany, now a Fox contributor.
The discontent illustrates the ongoing importance of Fox News as an agenda-setter that frequently drives, and not simply reflects, Republican politics. No one can get to the top of the GOP’s hill without it.
It’s also a testament to Fox’s power and influence, said Brian Stelter, media critic and author of two books about Fox News.
READ MORE
Can Trump be on the ballot? It’s the Supreme Court’s biggest election test since Bush v. Gore
The RNC chairwoman calls for unity as the party faces attacks by some Trump allies
Prosecutors in classified files case say Trump team’s version of events ‘inaccurate and distorted’
In a “Fox & Friends” appearance, Haley suggested her questioners seemed eager to “coronate” Trump. Shortly before DeSantis ended his own campaign, he said that conservative media outlets like Fox are afraid to challenge the ex-president for fear of losing their audience.
The past few months were a hard fall for DeSantis, once the beneficiary of so much attention that the Florida governor signed bills for the network’s cameras. He’s made 47 appearances on Fox since last September. Haley had 45 appearances in that time, and Trump six.
“I think they were ready to move on from Trump, but the base of the party was not,” said Erick Erickson, whose conservative talk show airs on 45 stations across the country. “At the end of the day, these are their viewers and they don’t want to alienate them.”
LONGTIME COMPLAINTS FROM DESANTIS
The DeSantis campaign was upset about Fox’s town hall with Trump before the Iowa caucuses, when anchors Bret Baier and Martha MacCallum received criticism for treating their subject gently.
Trump had demanded — and received — a 9 p.m. Eastern time slot on Fox for a Jan. 10 town hall to blunt the impact of DeSantis and Haley, appearing in their only one-on-one debate the same time on CNN. Fox held separate pre-Iowa town halls for DeSantis and Haley, but at 6 p.m. before prime time.
The DeSantis team felt Trump received little pushback from Fox when he decided to skip debates. They were angry that surrogates for the former president showed up at post-debate “spin rooms” even with the candidate absent, said a person close to the campaign who spoke candidly on condition of anonymity.
Frustration boiled over when DeSantis’ campaign manager, James Uthmeier, felt that a Fox graphic didn’t show the extent of the candidate’s appearances in Iowa. “Fox has turned into full-blown Trump TV,” Uthmeier wrote on X, formerly Twitter.
Fox did not make an executive available for an interview for this story. But a representative said that Trump surrogates were on scene post-debate because they had been booked for appearances by other networks. The 6 p.m. town halls weren’t as much a disadvantage as it seemed, since they followed “The Five,” Fox’s most-watched show.
On Jan. 16, the day after the Iowa caucus, Fox’s Laura Ingraham urged both DeSantis and Haley to clear the field for Trump.
“If she drops out today, if she came to terms with the fact that the GOP is a populist party, if she started vigorously campaigning for Trump, she could perhaps rebuild some of the trust that she’s lost with the GOP base,” Ingraham said.
During her testy “Fox & Friends” appearance on the morning of the New Hampshire primary, Haley rebuffed host Brian Kilmeade when he asked what would constitute a strong showing for her that day. Asked by Ainsley Earhardt if she would withdraw if she lost New Hampshire, Haley said she would not. Kilmeade later repeated the same question.
“I don’t care how much y’all want to coronate Donald Trump,” Haley said. “At the end of the day, that’s not what America wants. America wants a choice.”
Kilmeade told her, “I really wonder why you think we’re the enemy.”
One possibility: she had watched Trump give Kilmeade a tour of his plane earlier in New Hampshire. “You look like you’re in fightin’ shape,” Kilmeade said as he greeted the former president. “How much weight did you lose?”
“I get their annoyance,” Erickson said. “They’ve got a right to be annoyed by it, (with Fox) essentially pushing them to bow to a reality that they were not prepared to acknowledge.”
A Fox spokeswoman noted that, in response to Kilmeade’s “enemy” comment, Haley said “because I’ve looked at the media,” implying a broader criticism. She and DeSantis aren’t staying away, though; both accepted invitations to appear on Fox after making their criticisms.
During an interview with New Hampshire Gov. Chris Sununu, a Haley surrogate, Fox’s Harris Faulkner pushed back when Sununu questioned whether Trump’s age had affected his cognitive abilities — a frequent Fox topic when President Joe Biden is the subject.
“The guy is nearly 80 years old,” Sununu said.
“He’s 77,” Faulkner replied.
“Yes, that’s nearly 80,” Sununu said. “We’ll do the math later.”
Faulkner admonished Sununu for calling Trump a coward for not debating. “No name calling,” she said. “We don’t do name calling.”
NEW ELECTION, SAME FOX MANAGEMENT
This is the first presidential campaign since the Dominion Voting Systems lawsuit against the network for spreading lies in its post-2020 election coverage, which Fox settled for $787 million last year. Reams of internal documents released as part of that case showed how Fox executives and personalities greatly feared losing Trump fans in their audience by telling them things they didn’t want to hear.
The same management is in place now.
Last week, a half hour after a New York jury ordered Trump to pay writer E. Jean Carroll $83.3 million for defaming her, Fox’s “The Five” didn’t mention the news. The same hour, MSNBC talked of nothing else. The New York Times put the verdict on its front page Saturday, although not as the lead story.
Meanwhile, Trump has maintained a steady stream of invective about Fox on his Truth Social website.
His attack on his former press secretary came after she noted on Fox that Biden had a fairly good night in New Hampshire and that Trump should turn his attention to the general election. “I don’t need any advice from RINO Kayleigh McEnany on Fox,” Trump wrote on Truth Social, referencing the conservative slur Republican in Name Only. “Just had a GIANT victory ... and she’s telling me what I could do better.”
Trump frequently targets “Fox & Friends” host Steve Doocy for the host’s occasional fact checks. “Whatever happened to this guy???” Trump wrote.
“Hard to believe how one-sided Fox is,” Trump wrote in one post. “What a difference from past ... No wonder the Republican base no longer cares about them.”
Fox had no comment on Trump’s posts.
“The key for Fox is, are they going to silence the voices that have raised some concerns and skepticism, which they haven’t done so far, and credit to them for doing that,” Erickson said. “Trump is trying to bully and cajole and get people to fall in line so they don’t utter anything critical.”
___
David Bauder covers media for The Associated Press. Follow him at http://twitter.com/dbauder

Trump rivals rally to his defense against Colorado ruling | AP News

AMES, Iowa (AP) — With less than a month to go before voting begins, Donald Trump ‘s Republican rivals are once again rallying to his defense, this time after Colorado’s Supreme Court ruled to remove him from the state’s presidential primary ballot under the U.S. Constitution’s insurrection clause.
Just as they had following Trump’s successive indictments as he racked up 91 criminal charges, the GOP front-runner’s opponents cast the landmark decision — the first time in history the 14th Amendment has been used to disqualify a presidential candidate and one the former president has vowed to appeal — as inappropriate, a “stunt” and an “attack on democracy.”
Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis charged the court’s ruling was a plot to ensure Trump wins the nomination because Democrats view him as the weakest Republican candidate.
“Look, it’s unfair. They’re abusing power, 100%,” he told an audience in Urbandale, Iowa, on Wednesday morning. “But the question is: Is that going to work? And I think they have a playbook that unfortunately will work and it’ll give Biden or the Democrat or whoever, the ability to skate through this thing. That’s their plan.”
READ MORE
Madsen, Smith help Utah remain unbeaten at home, beat Colorado 73-68
Can Trump be on the ballot? It’s the Supreme Court’s biggest election test since Bush v. Gore
US founder of Haiti orphanage who is accused of sexual abuse will remain behind bars for now
The court’s ruling once again highlighted a defining dynamic of the GOP primary: While the trail of lawsuits and criminal charges following Trump had been expected to seriously damage his candidacy, they have instead had the opposite effect among Republicans. Primary voters — including many who had been open to backing rival candidates — have rallied around the former president, who has cast himself as the victim of a politically motivated effort by Democratic President Joe Biden and his administration to damage his chief political rival.
“I think that it confirms Americans’ deepest suspicions that many of our institutions can be weaponized against them. So it serves as a proof point for the former president,” said Republican strategist Devin O’Malley, who served as communications chief to former Vice President Mike Pence’s campaign.
O’Malley noted all of the justices on the Colorado court were appointed by Democratic governors. “On its face this is just so plainly partisan that it only helps him,” he said.
Indeed, even former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, a fierce Trump critic who has blasted the other candidates for being overly deferential to the former president, slammed the ruling as ill-advised.
“I don’t think it’s appropriate to take him off the ballot through the courts,” he told The Associated Press in an interview Wednesday. “I think we have to beat him at the ballot box. And that’s the way that that defeat will be most validated by the American people.”
Former United Nations Ambassador Nikki Haley told reporters Tuesday that the “last thing we want is judges telling us who can and can’t be on the ballot.” And entrepreneur Vivek Ramaswamy, who has cast himself as the heir to Trump’s “Make America Great Again” movement, pledged to withdraw his name from the Colorado GOP primary unless Trump is allowed on the ballot, and demanded DeSantis, Christie and Haley to do the same.
The Colorado Republican Party, however, said he wouldn’t have to and the party would instead convert their election from a primary to a caucus if the decision is allowed to stand. The party had previously laid out a contingency plan in which delegates would be chosen at an April 6 state convention instead of a March primary, according to a copy provided to The Associated Press.
The Colorado case is one of dozens of lawsuits that have been filed nationally to disqualify Trump from the ballot under Section 3, which was designed to keep former Confederates from returning to government after the Civil War. It bars from office anyone who swore an oath to “support” the Constitution and then “engaged in insurrection or rebellion” against it, and has been used only a handful of times since the decade after the Civil War. Trump had won all of the cases until Tuesday night.
Trump faces four criminal indictments, including one in Washington alleging he illegally sought to overturn the results of the 2020 election and fueled the riot on Jan. 6, 2021, when his supporters violently stormed the U.S. Capitol in an effort to prevent the peaceful transition of power.
Many Republicans have long rejected those allegations or suggested Trump’s conduct before leaving office didn’t break the law.
In an August AP-NORC poll, just 15% of Republicans said they think Trump did something illegal with regard to the Jan. 6 riot, compared with 47% of adults overall. Another 23% of Republicans said Trump did something unethical, but not illegal, while 46% said they think he did nothing wrong.
Several Iowans who came to see DeSantis on Wednesday said they disagreed with the Colorado court’s decision and expected it would bolster the former president’s support.
“I definitely think it will entrench the Trump supporters, those who have already made up their mind,” said Sean Ealy, 46 of Ellsworth, Iowa, who said he voted for Trump in both 2016 and 2020. “It will be another thing that will be on a list of things of, you know, them attacking Trump and the unconstitutionality of it.”
Ealy said he won’t be supporting Trump in the caucus next year in part because of the prosecutions against him. But the court’s decision is “awful” and “unconstitutional,” Ealy said, and “it certainly feels like there’s a vendetta against Trump.”
Roger Fritz, a 57-year-old engineer from Jewell, Iowa, called the decision “bogus” and “wrong” and argued citizens should have the opportunity to vote for any candidate. But Fritz, attending a DeSantis event in Ames Tuesday, said he was concerned Trump’s legal battles would ultimately make him unelectable.
“I don’t agree with it,” he said. “But the other party and those people are hell-bent on putting Trump in jail and I don’t see how he can win if he’s in jail.”
Biden’s campaign and White House officials repeatedly declined to comment on the Colorado ruling. That’s despite his re-election team ramping up its efforts to highlight Trump’s most controversial and radical statements and policy proposals.
“The president is not involved, we’re not involved in this,” White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre. “This is a legal process and we’re not involved in this.
But Biden, during a trip to Milwaukee, said there was “no question” Trump was an insurrectionist, saying that’s “self evident. You saw it all.”
“Whether the 14th Amendment applies or not, we’ll let the court make that decision. But he certainly supported an insurrection. There’s no question about it. None. Zero. And he seems to be doubling down on it,” Biden said.
__
Colvin reported from New York. Associated Press writers Thomas Beaumont in Urbandale, Iowa, Holly Ramer in Concord, New Hampshire, Meg Kinnard in Columbia, South Carolina, Aamer Madhani in Milwaukee and Colleen Long in Washington contributed to this report.

Kentucky's Democratic governor refers to Trump's anti-immigrant language as dangerous, dehumanizing | AP News

FRANKFORT, Ky. (AP) — Republican Donald Trump’s anti-immigrant language in his quest to win back the White House is dangerous and dehumanizing, Democratic Gov. Andy Beshear said Tuesday, warning that the rhetoric makes it more difficult for Congress to reach a meaningful U.S. border security deal.
Beshear — whose resounding reelection last month in solidly Republican Kentucky raised his national profile — said a balanced approach is needed on immigration: one that protects the nation’s borders but recognizes the role legal immigration plays in meeting business employment needs.
The governor has largely refrained from openly criticizing Trump, who remains popular in Kentucky, during his tenure and has repeatedly declared “a strong national security requires strong border security.” Beshear also authorized the deployment of Kentucky National Guard soldiers to the nation’s southern border during his first term.
But in an interview with The Associated Press on Tuesday, Beshear pointedly criticized Trump’s recent anti-immigrant remarks, in which the former president and current GOP presidential front-runner for 2024 talked about “blood” purity, echoing Nazi slogans of World War II.
READ MORE
Kentucky House boosts school spending but leaves out guaranteed teacher raises and universal pre-K
Educators played the same Powerball numbers for years, then hid a $1M winning ticket in a math book
Clayton makes 7 3-pointers, including go-ahead in OT to lift Florida past No. 10 Kentucky 94-91
“They’re poisoning the blood of our country,” Trump said about the influx of immigrants coming to the U.S. without immediate legal status, drawing on words similar to Adolf Hitler’s book “Mein Kampf.”
Asked to respond Tuesday, Beshear said: “I think the rhetoric is dangerous and it’s uncalled for. We can have strong opinions on illegal immigration. It is illegal first and our laws have to be protected, and we have to come together and do better about finding a long-term solution.”
“But those are still people, and we shouldn’t dehumanize human beings,” he added. “We should be able to talk about even the toughest issues without talking about them that way. That’s the only way, in the end, that Democrats and Republicans are going to be able to reach a viable solution that stops the flow of illegal immigration, that fills the jobs where we need immigration.”
In Washington, White House and Senate negotiators have been trying to reach a border security deal being demanded by Republicans in Congress to unlock President Joe Biden’s request for military aid for Ukraine and other national security needs.
A comprehensive immigration deal should include language offering a path toward citizenship for hundreds of thousands of immigrants brought to the U.S. as children, Beshear said, adding: “Now what that path looks like would require people come together and figure it out.”
“I think we’ve got to acknowledge that they are more American than they are anything else,” he said. “They are human beings, and this has been their home. So I think that we’ve got to have the empathy for someone that’s lived in this country their entire life and find the right path for them.”
Asked whether he plans to take a more active role in national politics, Beshear said “we may have some news soon on different ways we can assist others here in Kentucky and around the country.”
He reiterated his pledge to serve his entire second four-year term, which started last week. Beshear laid out his latest two-year budget priorities i n a speech on statewide TV Monday night. He pitched big pay raises for public school employees and state-funded preschool for every 4-year-old in Kentucky.
“My focus is on Kentucky and being the best governor that I can be and doing the most I can in this time for our people.” the governor said.
Still, speculation about the 46-year-old Beshear’s future beyond the governorship has percolated. In his inauguration speech last week, he railed against the politics of division in ways that seemed aimed as much at the national landscape as the situation in Kentucky, where he has had a strained relationship with the GOP-led legislature. A Louisville Courier Journal writer summed it up in a column topped by the headline: “Andy for president? Beshear’s inaugural address sounded like a campaign speech.”
Asked Tuesday what a winning message could be for national Democrats up-and-down the ticket in 2024, Beshear said the focus should be on improving people’s lives.
“On cable news every morning, it’s Democrat vs. Republican or Biden vs. Trump,” he said. “That’s not what people wake up thinking about. You think about your job and are you making enough to support your family. You’re thinking about the road you’re driving on to get there, to get your kids to school. You’re thinking about the public education your children are getting. And the safety of your community.”
“If Democrats or anyone want to not only win but then to do important things that help people, you’ve got to meet people where they are.” he added. “Focus on the issues that matter most to all Kentuckians, all Americans, and then show up every day and do your best to make their lives better.”

